[Docs] Add theming docs (#6460)
material-components/material-components-ios: THEMING.md

<!--docs:
title: "Theming"
layout: detail
section: components
excerpt: "Material Theming refers to the customization of your Material Design app to better reflect your product’s brand."

> -->

Reviewer: https://github.com/material-components/material-components-ios/tree/develop/components/schemes is the current location of our theming docs. Are we able to update that document instead?

Author: Done

Reviewer: Can we remove this file from the PR as well now?

Author: Whoops I thought I deleted it last commit.

Our approach to theming relies on the relationships between the following concepts:

1. Components
2. Subsystem Schemes
3. The Container Scheme
4. Theming Extensions

Components are expected to provide public APIs for a variety of parameters. An example of a component is [MDCButton](https://github.com/material-components/material-components-ios/tree/develop/components/Buttons).

Subsystem schemes represent a set of opinionated properties that are intended to be mapped to component parameters. There is a scheme for each Material Theming subsystem. For example, there is a scheme for the color, shape, and typography subsystems.

The Container scheme represents a single configurable entity that is applicable to all themeable components. A container scheme consists of all of the subsystem schemes.

Theming extensions are component extensions that, when invoked with a default container scheme, will theme a component according to the [Material Design guidelines](https://material.io/design). When provided with subsystem schemes via a container scheme, the extension will map the subsystem scheme's values to the component’s parameters.

### Sensible defaults, yet highly configurable

> By default, we try and give our components sensible values for all of their customizable properties, things such as `backgroundColor` or `titleFont`. You can use these defaults as a baseline, but we encourage you to theme your components to match your brand style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, components have reasonable defaults for all of their customizable properties, e.g. `backgroundColor` or `titleFont`. You can use these defaults as a baseline, but we encourage you to theme your components to match your brand style using theming extensions.
```

Author: Done

### Schemes

<ul class="icon-list">
<li class="icon-list-item icon-list-item--link"><a href="Container/">Container scheme</a></li>
<li class="icon-list-item icon-list-item--link"><a href="Color/">Color scheme</a></li>
<li class="icon-list-item icon-list-item--link"><a href="Shape/">Shape scheme</a></li>
<li class="icon-list-item icon-list-item--link"><a href="Typography/">Typography scheme</a></li>
</ul>

## Examples

> ### Using a subsystem scheme

Reviewer: When listing examples in documentation it can be helpful to list them in the order of most-commonly-expected use. I think that subsystem schemes will be fairly uncommonly used in relation to customizing container schemes, which in turn I expect to be used less than the theming extensions themselves; can we consider ordering the examples in the reverse of their current order?

Author: Done

let colorScheme = MDCSemanticColorScheme(defaults: .material201804)
// Configure custom properties to match your brand
colorScheme.backgroundColor = .lightGray
```

#### Objective-C

```objc
#import <MaterialComponents/MaterialColorScheme.h>

MDCSemanticColorScheme *colorScheme = [[MDCSemanticColorScheme alloc] initWithDefaults:MDCColorSchemeDefaultsMaterial201804];
// Configure custom properties to match your brand
colorScheme.backgroundColor = UIColor.lightGrayColor
```
<!--</div>-->

### Creating a container scheme

<!--<div class="material-code-render" markdown="1">-->
#### Swift

```swift
import MaterialComponents.MaterialColorScheme
import MaterialComponents.MaterialTypographyScheme
import MaterialComponents.MaterialShapeScheme
import MaterialComponentsBeta.MaterialContainerScheme

let containerScheme = MDCContainerScheme()
containerScheme.colorScheme = myColorScheme
containerScheme.typographyScheme = myTypographyScheme
containerScheme.shapeScheme = myShapeScheme
```

#### Objective-C

```objc
#import <MaterialComponents/MaterialColorScheme.h>
#import <MaterialComponents/MaterialShapeScheme.h>
#import <MaterialComponents/MaterialTypographyScheme.h>

> #import <MaterialComponents/MaterialContainerScheme.h>

Author: This should be beta

MDCContainerScheme *containerScheme = [[MDCContainerScheme alloc] init];
containerScheme.colorScheme = self.myColorScheme;
containerScheme.shapeScheme = self.myShapeScheme;
containerScheme.typographyScheme = self.myTypographyScheme;
```
<!--</div>-->

### Theme component

<!--<div class="material-code-render" markdown="1">-->
#### Swift

```swift
import MaterialComponents.MaterialButtons
import MaterialComponentsBeta.MaterialButtons_Theming
import MaterialComponentsBeta.MaterialContainerScheme

let containerScheme = MDCContainerScheme()
let button = MDCButton()
button.applyTextTheme(withScheme: containerScheme)
```

#### Objective-C

```objc
#import <MaterialComponents/MaterialButtons.h>
#import <MaterialComponents/MaterialButtons+Theming.h>

> #import <MaterialComponents/MaterialContainerScheme.h>

Author: This should be beta

> <!--docs:

Reviewer 2: Please move this file out of the project root. Consider placing it in `docs/`

title: "Theming"
layout: detail
section: components
excerpt: "Material Theming refers to the customization of your Material Design app to better reflect your product’s brand."
-->

# Theming

Material Theming refers to the customization of your Material Design app to better reflect your product’s brand.

## Overview

### Terminology

Our approach to theming relies on the relationships between the following concepts:

1. Components
2. Subsystem Schemes
3. The Container Scheme
4. Theming Extensions

Components are expected to provide public APIs for a variety of parameters. An example of a component is [MDCButton](https://github.com/material-components/material-components-ios/tree/develop/components/Buttons).

> Subsystem schemes represent a set of opinionated properties that are intended to be mapped to component parameters. There is a scheme for each Material Theming subsystem. For example, there is a scheme for color, shape, and typography subsystems.

Reviewer 2: Nit/grammar: "...there is a scheme for **the** color, shape,..."

Author: Done

The Container scheme represents a single configurable entity that is applicable to all themeable components. A container scheme consists of all of the subsystem schemes.

> Theming extensions are component extensions that, when invoked with a default container scheme, will configure a component to match the design system's defaults. When provided with subsystem schemes via a container scheme, the extension will map the subsystem scheme's values to the component’s parameters.

Reviewer 3: Tip: change "... configure a component to match the design system's defaults" to:
"... theme a component according to the [Material Design guidelines]\(a-link-to-guidelines>\)"

Author: Done

### Sensible defaults, yet highly configurable

> By default, we try and give our components sensible values for all of their customizable properties, things such as `backgroundColor` or `titleFont`. You can use these defaults as a baseline, but we encourage you to theming your components to match your brand style.

Reviewer 2: Nit/grammar: "...encourage you to ~theming~ theme your components..."

Author: Done

### Schemes

<ul class="icon-list">

> <li class="icon-list-item icon-list-item--link"><a href="Container/">Container scheme</a></li>

Reviewer 2: Do these links work? I would expect these to be anchor tags.  I don't see the leading hash (`#`) and I don't see anchors (`<a name="Container" />`) being defined in the document.

Author: I don't know where we want to put this so until that is resolved the links won't work.

Reviewer 2: Is this required for this PR? If it's the only blocker, can we remove the list and submit without it?  It looks like the docs site generates a table of contents if the README.md has the marker at the top of the file:

```html
<!-- toc -->
```

https://material.io/develop/ios/components/bottomappbar/

Author: Should we wait to make sure we place it at the correct location? I can fix the links, my only blocker is where do we put this? I am waiting for your (@romoore) question to be answered "Please let us know where website docs should live."

Reviewer 2: Ping @jverkoey

Reviewer: These links will work if we move this file to `components/schemes`.

Reviewer 2: How will these work?
1. There's no document called "Container"
2. The href doesn't start with an anchor marker (`#`)
3. Regardless of (1) or (2), the relevant section is named "Container scheme" and not "Container".

Reviewer 2: Ah, sorry. I see now—they point to subdirectories.  Yep, that makes much more sense if it's moved to `components/schemes/`

<li class="icon-list-item icon-list-item--link"><a href="Color/">Color scheme</a></li>
<li class="icon-list-item icon-list-item--link"><a href="Shape/">Shape scheme</a></li>
<li class="icon-list-item icon-list-item--link"><a href="Typography/">Typography scheme</a></li>
</ul>

#### Container scheme

> The Container Scheme represents a single configurable entity that is applicable to all themeable Components. A Container Scheme consists of all of the Subsystem Schemes.

Reviewer 2: This looks like a copy-paste from the section above. I would suggest that we don't need to repeat it here. Providing links back to the Terminology section definitions for the first instance of each usage would be a good alternative.

Author: Removed.

## Examples

### Using a subsystem scheme

<!--<div class="material-code-render" markdown="1">-->
#### Swift

```swift
import MaterialComponents.MaterialColorScheme

let colorScheme = MDCSemanticColorScheme(defaults: .material201804)

> // Configure custom properties to match your branch

Reviewer 2: Nit: s/branch/brand/ ?

Author: Done

colorScheme.backgroundColor = .black

> colorScheme.primaryColor = .yellow

Reviewer 2: Do these colors work with the default `onSecondary`, `onPrimary`, etc.?  If not I suggest that we either come up with a custom scheme that would work (perhaps just changing `.background` to be a light gray) or omit them.

Author: Done

colorScheme.secondaryColor = .red
```

#### Objective-C

```objc

> #import "MaterialColorScheme.h"

Reviewer 2: Nit:  Framework-style imports?

Author: Done

MDCSemanticColorScheme *colorScheme = [[MDCSemanticColorScheme alloc] initWithDefaults:MDCColorSchemeDefaultsMaterial201804];

> // Configure custom properties to match your branch

Reviewer 2: Nit: s/branch/brand ?

Author: Done

colorScheme.backgroundColor = UIColor.blackColor;
colorScheme.primaryColor = UIColor.yellowColor;
colorScheme.secondaryColor = UIColor.redColor;
```
<!--</div>-->

### Creating a container scheme

<!--<div class="material-code-render" markdown="1">-->
#### Swift

```swift

> import MaterialComponents.MaterialColorScheme

Reviewer 2: Missing import for `MaterialComponentsBeta.MaterialContainerScheme`.

Author: Done

import MaterialComponents.MaterialTypographyScheme
import MaterialComponents.MaterialShapeScheme

let containerScheme = MDCContainerScheme()
containerScheme.colorScheme = myColorScheme
containerScheme.typographyScheme = myTypographyScheme
containerScheme.shapeScheme = myShapeScheme
```

#### Objective-C

```objc

> #import "MaterialColorScheme.h"

Reviewer 2: Missing import for `MaterialContainerScheme.h`

Author: Done

> #import "MaterialShapeScheme.h"

Reviewer 2: Nit: framework-style imports?

Author: Done

#import "MaterialTypographyScheme.h"

MDCContainerScheme *containerScheme = [[MDCContainerScheme alloc] init];
containerScheme.colorScheme = self.myColorScheme;
containerScheme.shapeScheme = self.myShapeScheme;
containerScheme.typographyScheme = self.myTypographyScheme;
```
<!--</div>-->

### Theme component

<!--<div class="material-code-render" markdown="1">-->
#### Swift

```swift
import MaterialComponents.MaterialButtons
import MaterialComponentsBeta.MaterialButtons_Theming
import MaterialComponentsBeta.MaterialContainerScheme

> 

Reviewer 2: Nit: Extra newline.

Author: Done

let containerScheme = MDCContainerScheme()
let button = MDCButton()
button.applyTextTheme(withScheme: containerScheme)
```

#### Objective-C

```objc
#import "MaterialButtons.h"
#import "MaterialButtons+Theming.h"
#import "MaterialContainerScheme.h"

> 

Reviewer 2: Nit: Extra newline.

Author: Done

MDCContainerScheme *containerScheme = [[MDCContainerScheme alloc] init];
MDCButton *button = [[MDCButton alloc] init];
[button applyTextThemeWithScheme:containerScheme];
```
<!--</div>-->

> ### Additional links

Reviewer 2: Nit: This should probably be an `h2` (`##`) since it's not part of the "Examples" section.

Author: Done

> * [Material Design Theming document](https://material.io/design/material-theming/overview.html#)

Reviewer 2: Nit: s/document/article/?
Alternative: `[Material Guidelines introduction to Theming](https://material.io/design/material-theming/overview.html)`

Author: Done
